---
layout: post
title:  "Week 6 DP Algorithm: Robbers"
date:   2016-08-08 00:45:00 -0400
categories: vcs
---

```python
require 'pry'
```

You are a professional robber planning to rob houses along a street. Each house has a certain amount of money stashed, the only constraint stopping you from 
robbing each of them is that adjacent houses  have security system connected and it will automatically contact the police if two adjacent houses were broken into 
on the same night. Given a list of non-negative integers representing the amount of money of each house, determine the maximum amount of money you can 
rob tonight without alerting the police.

This is a dynamic programming problem. an algorithmic technique which is usually based on a recurrent formula.

In this problem we need to find the maximum sum of integers in an array where the integers cannot be an index next to each other.

Hint: if a value is greater than both its neighbors(combined value), then choose that value!

```
test cases
nums1 = [1,3,1] #=> 3 
nums2 = [1,2,3,4,5] #=> 9
nums3 = [2,1,1,4] #=> 6
```

Explanation:

 for k houses
 let M(k) respresent the value of the the house
 let P(k) represent the max amount of money considering only the first k houses
 P(0) would obviously be 0
 P(1) would be M(1), the sum of the first house
 P(k) = max( P(k-2) + M(k), P(k-1)) 
  P(k-2) + M(k) would be robbing the current house, and P(k-1) would be robbing a previous house and this one isn't robbed)

```ruby
  def rob(nums)
    return 0 if nums.empty? || nums.nil?
    return nums[0] if nums.length == 1

    inclusive = [nums[0], nums[1]].max
    arr = [nums[0], inclusive]
    i = 2
    while i != nums.length
      arr[i] = [arr[i-2] + nums[i], arr[i-1]].max
      i += 1
    end
    arr.last
  end
```

Time Complexity is linear, O(n), at most exams each element twice.


<!--
def rob2(nums)
  return 0 if nums.empty? || nums.nil?
  return nums[0] if nums.length == 1

  top = nums[0]
  bot = 0

  i = 1
  while i != nums.length
    temp = top > bot ? top : bot
    top = bot + nums[i]
    bot = temp
    i += 1
  end

  (top > bot) ? top : bot
end

This is the more refined version doing the same thing.  -->


